Holy moly.
Another section done.
And we're getting so close to the end in this section we learned about searching and traversal some
of the most popular and important algorithms we learned about linear search and how it can be good for
some cases but not the most efficient because it has linear time.
And we also talked about binary search where we're able to search through things at log of an essentially
skipping a lot of the nodes that we would need to search by dividing the tree in half.
We then talked about how to traverse a tree and a graph that is to visit every single note.
And the most efficient way possible we talked about depth first search that goes in as deep as possible
into a tree or graph and breath for a search that goes level by level searching or traversing a tree
or a graph
and whether you realize it or not we've completed a lot of this mind map that looked so intimidating
at the beginning of this course you see.
Now when we look at a race for example we understand that well when array we need to search through
an array we can ask the question hey is it sorted because if it is then yes.
In that case we should divide and conquer and arrange that array in a tree like data structure so that
we can do binary search and get a speed boost of all log and is the array not sorted.
Well no then it's actually more efficient to sort the array even though it takes all of and log in as
we know over here and then do a binary search after we sorted and there are lot of programs do that.
Although it may seem time consuming to do sorting and then searching it is actually faster than perhaps
doing a linear search over and over.
We can also complete this part of the graph where we come to graphs and trees.
When we do traversals that is try and visit a node in a tree or a graph or all nodes in a tree over
graph.
We know that it's going to take over and that is we have to visit every node.
It's going to be linear time but there are ways to traverse these trees using breath first search and
depth first search and we learned that breath first search is great for the shortest path.
Algorithms while depth first search is really great at Maiz solving problems or perhaps finding if a
node even exists.
And death for a search allows us to do in order Post order and preorder sorting.
And we even coded this up all ourselves and we learn how the code works using recursion with depth first
search.
And also with Brett first search using both iterative and recursive using a key data structure.
Finally we also learned a little bit about shortest path problems such as the one that Google Maps would
use when there is waits between nodes in a graph where we can use something like Belman Ford or diasters
algorithm to solve a problem.
Congratulations.
This is your mind map and you've covered every single thing on this map with the exception of one and
that is this one right over here.
Dynamic Programming.
It's a short section to complete our overall mind map and get you interview ready.
So I'll see you in the next section.
Congratulations.
Getting this far.
You're almost there.